.TH dbuck 1 "Version 1.16"

.SH NAME
dbuck \- format output from pdsh command or similar

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbuck
.RI [ OPTION "]... "

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads data from stdin and outputs a human readable report on stdout.

dbuck is similar to dshbak but is targeted at numerical data such as temperatures, power consumption, loadavg etc. Output is a bucket sorted table, a sort of histogram.

Data is assumed to be N lines of data one for each host/entity. By default dbuck will autodetect the column to use (looking at the last three lines) and sort everything into five (linear) buckets. Any line missing numerical data at the targeted column will be ignored.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print help message
.TP
.BI "-r" LOW-HI ", --range=" LOW-HI
Explicitly specify a range from minimum value of lowest bucket to maximum value of highest bucket (default: minimum value to maximum value seen in input data)
.TP
.BI "-k " KEY ", --key=" KEY
Use data at position KEY (default: auto)
.TP
.B -o, --show-overflow
Include two extra buckets for overflow and underflow. This option is only valid with a custom range (-r, --range). Default behavior is to count the over- and underflows and present them in the statistical summary.
.TP
.BI "-n " NBUCKETS ", --nbuckets=" NBUCKETS
Number of buckets to use (default: 5)
.TP
.B -s, --statistics
Output a statistical summary (min, max, mean, sum, ...)
.TP
.B -S, --chop-long-lines
Chop too long lines / enforce one output line per bucket
.TP
.BI "-t " FIELD_SEPARATORS ", --field-separators=" FIELD_SEPARATORS
Additional field separators, space not optional (default: "")
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Be verbose
.TP
.B --debug
Output debugging information

.SH EXAMPLE
$ cat test/dbuck.testdata
 n1: 139 W
 n11: 128 W
 n13: 127 W
 n9: 127 W
 ...
.TP
$ cat test/dbuck.testdata | ./dbuck -s -n 4 --verbose
 Info: auto-detect unanimously selected key: 1
 Info: Creating simple linear bucket set
 Statistical summary
 --------------------------------------
 Number of values         : 30
 Number of rejected lines : 0
 Min value                : 115.000000
 Max value                : 209.000000
 Mean                     : 135.466667
 Median                   : 127.005617
 Standard deviation       : 25.807956
 Sum                      : 4064.000000

    LOW-    HI: CNT  HOSTLIST
 --------------------------------------
 115.00-138.50:  24  n[7-30]
 138.50-162.00:   2  n[1,3]
 162.00-185.50:   1  n6
 185.50-209.00:   3  n[2,4-5]

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Peter Kjellström <cap@nsc.liu.se>.

The program is published part of python-hostlist at http://www.nsc.liu.se/~kent/python-hostlist/

.SH SEE ALSO
.I hostlist
(1)
.I pdsh
(1)
.I dshbak
(1)
