.TH hostgrep 1 "Version 1.16"

.SH NAME
hostgrep \- print lines matching hostlist

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hostgrep
.RI [ OPTION "]... " HOSTLIST " [" FILE ]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Search the files for lines matching the given hostlist.
If no files are given, search the standard input.

For each line, the program tries to find all hostnames and hostlists.
Hostlists are then expanded to hostnames. The set of hostnames in a line
is then compared to the set of hostnames given by the 
.I HOSTLIST
on the command line. By default, the line is printed if any hostname
from the
.I HOSTLIST
is found in the line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --all
Print a line if all hostnames in the given
.I HOSTLIST
is found in the line.
.TP
.B --any
Print a line if any hostname in the given
.I HOSTLIST
is found in the line (the default).
.TP
.B -h, --no-filename
Do not show the filename in front of matching line. This is the default
if at most one
.I FILE
is given.
.TP
.B -H, --with-filename
Show the filename in front of matching lines. This is the default
if two or more
.I FILES
are given.
.TP
.B -v, --invert-match
Invert the sense of matching, to select non-matching lines.
.TP
.B -n, --line-number
Show line number before match.
.TP
.BI --restrict= REGEXP
Restrict host matching to the part of the line that is matched as group 1 by this regexp.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Search for lines in an accounting file where any of the three hosts \
is present (as a hostname or part of a hostlist):
.B hostgrep
n[100-102] /var/log/slurm/accounting/2009-02-22 
.TP
Search for lines in the accounting files where all of the three hosts \
are present (as a hostname or part of a hostlist). Do not show filenames:
.B hostgrep
-h --all
n[100-102] /var/log/slurm/accounting/*
.TP
Search for lines on stdin where nodes in n[1-8] are mentioned \
in the part of the line that comes before the first colon:
.B hostgrep
--restrict='^([^:]*):'
n[1-8]

.SH BUGS
The program has a rather naive notion of what constitutes hostnames
and hostlist.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kent Engström <kent@nsc.liu.se>.

The program is published at http://www.nsc.liu.se/~kent/python-hostlist/

.SH SEE ALSO
.I hostlist
(1)

The hostlist expression syntax is used by several programs developed at 
.B LLNL
(https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/), for example
.B SLURM
(https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/) and 
.B Pdsh
(https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/pdsh.html).

See the
.B HOSTLIST EXPRESSIONS
section of the
.BR pdsh (1)
manual page for a short introduction to the hostlist syntax.
