.TH hostlist 1 "Version 1.16"
.SH NAME
hostlist \- handle hostlist expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hostlist
.RI [ OPTION "]... [" HOSTLIST ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Perform a set operation (union, intersection, difference or symmetric
difference) on the given hostlists. Output the result as a hostlist, 
a count of hostnames or an expanded list of hostnames.

If "-" is used instead of a hostlist argument, an arbitrary number of
hostlists are read from stdin. The union of them is used as if it had
been present on the command line as a single hostlist argument.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -u, --union
Compute the union of the hostlists. A hostname is present in
the output if it is included in at least one of the hostlists. This is
the default operation.
.TP
.B -i, --intersection
Compute the intersection of the hostlists. A hostname is present in the
output if it is included in all the hostlists.
.TP
.B -d, --difference
Compute the difference of the hostlists. A hostname is present in the
output if it is included in the first hostlist but not any of the following.
.TP
.B -x, --symmetric-difference
Compute the symmetric difference of the hostlists. A hostname is present in the
output if it is included in an odd number of the hostlists.
.TP
.BI "-o " OFFSET ", --offset=" OFFSET
Filter the result to skip
.I OFFSET
hosts from the beginning. If
.I OFFSET
is not less than the number of hosts in the result, the result will
become empty. If
.I OFFSET
is negative, keep
.I -OFFSET
hosts from the end of the result.
The default is to skip nothing.
.TP
.BI "-l " LIMIT ", --limit=" LIMIT
Filter the result to limit it to the first
.I LIMIT
hosts. If
.I LIMIT
is not less than the number of hosts in the result, this option does nothing.
This filter is applied after the
.B --offset
filter (see above).
The default is to have no limit.
.TP
.B -c, --collapse
Output the result as a hostlist expression. This is the default. See the
.B --chop
option for splitting into multiple hostlists of a certain size.
.TP
.B -n, --count
Output the number of hostnames in the result.
.TP
.B -e, --expand
Output the result as an expanded list of hostnames.
.TP
.B -w
Output the result as an expanded list of hostnames. This option is deprecated. Use -e or --expand instead.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Output nothing. This option is useful together with
.BR --non-empty .
.TP
.B -0, --non-empty
Return success if the resulting hostlist is non-empty and failure if it is empty.
.TP
.BI "-s " SEPARATOR ", --separator=" SEPARATOR
Use
.I SEPARATOR
as the separator between the hostnames in the expanded list (and between (chopped) hostlists in collapsed mode).
The default is a newline.
.TP
.BI "-p " PREPEND ", --prepend=" PREPEND
Output
.I PREPEND
before each hostname in the expanded list (and before each hostlist in collapsed mode).
The default is to prepend nothing.
.TP
.BI "-a " APPEND ", --append=" APPEND
Output
.I APPEND
after each hostname in the expanded list (and after each hostlist in collapsed mode).
The default is to append nothing.
.TP
.BI "-S " FROM,TO ", --substitute=" FROM,TO
Apply a regular expression substitution to each hostname,
replacing all
.I FROM
with
.IR TO .
The default is to do no substitution.
.TP
.BI "--append-slurm-tasks=" SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE
Append the number of tasks parsed from the
.I SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE
string. You need to use
.B -e/--expand
and you probably need to specify
.B -a/--append
and
.B -s/--separator
too. NOTE: The hostlist is always sorted internally by this program. The
task counts from 
.I SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE
is then applied to each hostname in the sorted list.
.TP
.BI "--repeat-slurm-tasks=" SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE
Repeat each hostname so it is listed multiple times as specified by the
.I SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE
string. You need to use
.B -e/--expand.
NOTE: The hostlist is always sorted internally by this program. The
task counts from
.I SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE
is then applied to each hostname in the sorted list.
.TP
.BI "--chop=" CHUNKSIZE
When outputting as collapsed hostlist (the default mode
.BR --collapse )
split into hostlists of size
.I CHUNKSIZE
and output each hostlist separately. The last hostlist may be smaller than the rest.
.TP
.B --version
Show the version of the utility and the underlying Python library.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Output the union of n[10-19] and n[15-24] (which is n[10-24]):
.B hostlist
n[10-19] n[15-24]
.TP
Output the result of removing n15 and n[17-18] from n[1-20] \
(which is n[1-14,16,19-20]):
.B hostlist
-d n[1-20] n15 n[17-18]
.TP
Output the result as an expanded list of hostnames (one hostname per line):
.B hostlist
-d -e n[1-20] n15 n[17-18]
.TP
Output the result as an expanded list of hostnames separated by commas:
.B hostlist
-d -e -s, n[1-20] n15 n[17-18]
.TP
Output the result as an expanded list of hostnames (followed by space and \
the digit "8") separated by spaces:
.B hostlist
-d -e -s " " -a " 8" n[1-20] n15 n[17-18]
.TP
Expand a hostlist, replacing "n" with "ni":
.B hostlist
-e -S n,ni n[1-20]
.TP
Print INCLUDED as n11 is in n[10-20]:
if 
.B hostlist
-q0 -i n11 n[10-20]; then echo INCLUDED; else echo NOT INCLUDED; fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kent Engström <kent@nsc.liu.se>.

The program is published at http://www.nsc.liu.se/~kent/python-hostlist/
.SH NOTES
The square brackets used in the hostlist expression syntax are also used in
shell glob patterns. This may cause unwanted surprises if you have files
in your current directory named after hosts present in the hostlist. Always
quote the hostlist expression to avoid this problem:

  % hostlist n[1-10]
  n[1-10]
  % touch n1
  % hostlist n[1-10]
  n1
  % echo n[1-10]
  n1
  % hostlist "n[1-10]"
  n[1-10]

.SH SEE ALSO
The hostlist expression syntax is used by several programs developed at 
.B LLNL
(https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/), for example
.B SLURM
(https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/) and 
.B Pdsh
(https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/pdsh.html).

See the
.B HOSTLIST EXPRESSIONS
section of the
.BR pdsh (1)
manual page for a short introduction to the hostlist syntax.
